Okay.
Okay, we're rolling.
Okay, I am very unknowledgeable about collectors, so some of the questions I'm going to ask
you are pretty basic.
All right, that's fine.
I assume many of your listeners will be the same.
Right, exactly.
Okay, the first question is a pretty obvious one.
Can you just briefly tell me how you got started as a collector?
Well, I guess we have to go back quite a ways.
I got interested in science fiction in high school, as many people do, and once I started
finding that, hey, out there in the big world, they have newsstands that sell books, why I
bought everything that I could get my hands on for many, many years, and I really got
started as a serious collector, however.
I have my wife to thank for that, and she sort of wishes she hadn't said it sometimes,
I think, because I was telling her about the books that I'd read when I was in high
school, which happened to be a series of hardcover, juvenile science fiction books published by
the Winston Company, and how I'd been in love with those things, and read them several times,
and had fondled them a lot, and so on.
And she says, oh, there are used book dealers.
They could probably find copies of those, and you could buy them.
And I hadn't even considered that.
In the past, I'd only bought what I'd found at newsstands, and so when the time came,
and I started sending these lists to all the dealers, well, they had all these other fantastic
books also, and it's sort of mushroom from there.
Okay, good.
Could you tell me what kinds of things you concentrate on collecting?
Well, I once gave a talk on this subject, and I titled it The Complete Science Fiction
Collector, Confessions of a Packrat.
In other words, I'm very, very versatile and Catholic in my taste.
I don't like all kinds of things as much as equally, but I collect anything that's published
in science fiction in fantasy vein, I get my hands on, and then I can afford, which means almost.
I've got copies of almost every book that's been published.
Okay, now I'm not sure I still understand that.
I'm not sure if there's a term for this, but like, I'm talking about categories like paperbacks,
pulps, hardbacks, things of that sort.
I started out with paperbacks and the Digest magazine.
I've gone back in terms of picking up the old pulp magazines to the point where now I have
almost all of them that were ever published, starting back with Weird Tales in 1923 and
amazing stories in 1926.
I'm very proud of my complete collection of Weird Tales, as I understand there's only about
30 copies, there's so many systems, and just about as good on astounding science fiction,
for example.
Recently, I have been branching out into hardbacks also, but I'm a long, long ways from completing that.
What about just plain old paperbacks?
Well, I have about $14,000, $15,000.
Is that enough for you?
Yeah, do you try to pick up all of those or do you just take certain kinds?
There's always a problem in making the, where do you draw the line?
But I basically get everything that's clearly science fiction,
everything that's clearly fantasy.
I kind of draw the line someplace in the horror vein to one side and maybe fairy tales on the
other side.
And sometimes I'll draw the line at an Adam Baum story that's set in the near future,
something like that.
But basically, I get every paperback in science fiction and fantasy.
In multiple editions, I might say, every time a new cover comes out, why I'll buy the new edition.
Okay, now this question is really going to show my ignorance, but
how do you accumulate your books?
Do you go about it by cold methodical planning and go right to the publisher?
Do you just search around bookstores?
How do you go about that?
No, I buy most of mine these days used.
I'll buy the ones I like better new so that I have a mint copy on paperbacks, especially.
But an awful lot of them, I buy them used.
Just fairly recent, just in the local bookstores.
Lubbock is blessed with about seven or eight, so I make the rounds on a regular basis,
just pick up whatever I happen to come across.
Sooner or later, I find most everything in the recent things.
And on older things, I go through mail order dealers.
Okay, then you, I assume, and I know through Bill that there are publications and so forth.
I mean, how do you know how much is coming out?
Do you have some kind of checklist?
The best source by far is the news magazine of science fiction called Locust.
And science fiction chronicle also has these sort of things.
They attempt to list every book that comes out in the field.
In fact, they're even wider in their categories than I am, and they include
academic type books and things like those too.
And every month, they will list everything that's come out by every publisher.
Most of the publishers send them copies, and the ones that don't, they still will write down there
that they know this book exists, but they haven't seen a copy.
They also give many reviews on many of them.
And I assume for the, I call it pulse, I'm not sure what the term is.
I assume for those, you just have subscriptions.
There are no pulp magazines been published since 1955 or so.
They sort of went the way of the dinosaurs.
But their successors are the digest size magazines, as well as such large oversized ones as
the one that's on me and Twilight Zone currently.
And so I buy those on the newsstand every month.
Okay, have you ever run across any valuable finds or little nuggets just by accident,
just browsing around?
Not as many as I would like.
Occasionally, I do.
I pick up quite a few, you know, moderately rare things.
Say, for example, for half a cover price at a used bookstore.
But that's getting to be more and more rare as the collectors have got all the valuable things
grabbed up.
So most of them I have to pay more or less market value.
Actually, one other source I didn't mention for many of my books, because I buy so many,
I'll actually buy a person's entire collection just to get the books that I especially want,
if there's some older, rarer ones among them.
I assume then you have a complete set of the Ace Doubles?
Actually, I'm still missing one that's been rather elusive.
But other than that, I have all the Ace Doubles, yeah.
Is that D13?
I have a D13.
Yes, I do.
I was very lucky to get that before the prices started escalating as much as they have.
And I got it from one of the major dealers and I paid what now is,
three or four years later, would seem to be a real steal.
Okay, what about traveling?
Do you ever travel just to make collecting trips?
No, I combine collecting trips with whenever I happen to be traveling.
I remember one time, not too long ago, we visited relatives in Madison, Wisconsin,
and I had to mail all the books back because there wasn't room in the rabbit for the family in the box.
And my wife said, no way are we going to sit in here with several boxes of books.
So, but I don't make deliberate trips just to buy things.
Okay, are you a reader and a fan of science fiction first and then a collector?
Or are you in the field principally for collecting?
Yeah, people keep asking me that.
How much of this stuff do you read?
Well, the answer is as much as I have time for, which in my rather busy schedule is between 50
and 70 books a year I estimate.
And I'll probably add a thousand to the collection in a year.
So I certainly don't read a very big percentage.
But I pick and choose among what I've got.
Since I have less hardbacks and since they cost more in general,
I feel some sort of a semi obligation to try to read something if I bought it in hardback.
Okay, I'm sure you're asked this question from people who know that you're a collector.
Just from the psychological point of view, why do you collect?
Because it's there.
That's actually, I suppose, a difficult question for anyone to answer.
First of all, you have to love books or whatever you're collecting.
I mean, this is the collector's mania.
There's lots of people that collect anything from Mads books to old Avon bottles, we're having
sex. And I collect what I enjoy from other standpoints.
I enjoy the artwork on them.
I enjoy reading the things.
I like to read at least the representative book by any author that's important in the field,
and so on.
And I just love books.
I love to handle them.
I love to sort them, catalog them, put them away, just look at them.
And that's what I do with a fair portion of my spare time, I guess.
Okay, you...
Well, there's one more aspect of this.
Once you really get the collecting bug, and that is the completest attitude.
That is, for example, you decide you want to collect something.
I don't care what it is, but let's say it's the Ace Devils.
You use that as an example.
A lot of people have gone after them, for example, for the prices are growing up.
But once you decide you want to get the Ace Devils, you don't care which ones are good ones
and which ones are bad ones in terms of the story.
All you're concerned about is getting a copy of every one.
And that same thing goes especially for people that collect the magazines,
because there it's pretty obvious whether you've got them all,
because they're all nicely laid out by months.
Okay, I think you sort of halfway answered this one a minute ago.
If you think...
If you would just repeat yourself, go ahead and tell me, and I won't ask this.
But I asked you, why do you collect?
Why science fiction books?
Why not something else?
Like Mysteries or Westerns or Seashells or something?
Because I love science fiction.
Something we haven't gotten into the conversation yet is I hear at Texas Tech,
I also am involved in helping the team teach the course in science fiction.
We have a special course through our honors program,
and there are three or four of us every semester.
Team teach this thing to a small group, and we try to teach them principles about writing,
also the creative writing course, very much a discussion course, and so on.
I just love science fiction.
I don't mind reading an occasional mystery, let's say.
I haven't read a Western in 20 years, but I've read lots of science fiction,
and since that's what I like to read, that's what I like to collect.
Also, I might say that many of the older science fiction books are
more valuable to collectors in general than many of those in other fields.
Say Comparable Age and Publisher.
Okay, you also sort of answered this one a minute ago too, but let me ask you.
Let's say with the books that you collected sometimes,
let's say your collection of Weird Tales or something,
what do you do with those books?
You take them out and read them or handle them or what?
I handle them to the extent of cataloging them.
I have a very extensive catalog system, as you might guess.
I'll look at them occasionally.
On the Weird Tales, especially in a few things like this, I have people that
I correspond with other collectors and so on, and some of them who can't afford to spend
several hundred dollars to some of the early issues, let's say,
and might want to read some story that's never been reproduced or something like that.
I'll actually make a photocopy of it for them.
My expenses and time.
That's one thing I do with some of them.
Okay, and you must be fairly knowledgeable about other collectors and the sources and so forth.
Are there people who collect the science fiction books simply because it's
oh, I don't know, because it's just something to collect.
Maybe you're not fans, you don't care anything about science fiction.
Yeah, maybe as an investment, let's say.
My advice to somebody who wants to do that is you've got to know a heck of a lot about this
field before you're likely to be very successful at it, going about it from that standpoint.
Just because something as old as it necessarily means that it's especially valuable,
and what's real, it would be really difficult from the investor standpoint,
from somebody who knew very little about the field, is to know which books to pick up now,
because 10 years from now, they're going to be worth a lot.
In fact, that's kind of hard for me to guess, and I'm sure in heck no more about it than a lot of
people do. You're not in it for the investment, are you?
No, I'm not. But I'm thinking about comic book collectors, especially.
There's a heck of a lot of people in that field, while many of the most fanatical ones clearly
love comic books, there are people that see this fantastic way that the prices go up on those things
and want to buy them just as an investment. In fact, the paperback books are kind of getting
in that category too, an extent, because they are publishing price guides for them now, and they
hadn't done that until very recently. In your particular line of collecting, what is considered
the ultimate? The ultimate. I'd say the rarest item I've got is my volume one, number one, Weird Tales.
But there are, well, it depends on what you're talking about. For example,
here's an example a lot of people would know about. Frank Herbert's Dune, hard cover, the first
edition, is worth a great deal of money, simply because Dune wasn't that well-known when it first
came out, didn't attract that much attention until slowly over several years, and that first
hard cover edition is extremely hard to find. So that in good condition, I understand that
a first edition is worth a thousand bucks. Well, I don't have a copy of it, I wouldn't mind having
a copy at all, but I wouldn't pay that money for it. But I know somebody who found one in the grudge
sale in Lubbock and bugged the heck out of me, it wasn't me.
How much can a really valuable single paperback cost?
Well, I could tell you the highest price I've heard anybody charge for anything, and that was,
and I don't know if they got it, this was the asking price. It was $175 for out in the Canary House
by Kurt Vonnegut, and that book, which is his only collection of short stories and which are all
unabashedly science fiction, he vows he'll never allow reprinted as long as he lives, and there
aren't all that many copies available, so the price of that thing has been really escalating.
I got my copy for $3, I don't mind telling you.
What's the most you paid for a paperback?
I think about 20, and I don't do that for very many, I assure you.
By the way, this isn't a formal question, but do you happen to have a paperback copy of the
Hillman edition of the Dying Earth, the first paperback?
No, as a matter of fact, that's another one that I could have mentioned that's in that pretty good
category, and Jack Vance in general is a very collectible person, and I've got everything
that's say relatively accessible, but I don't have something like that.
I do have his first hardback, by the way, Vandals of the Boyd, a lot of people wouldn't mind having
that. Okay, one thing that I wonder about with paperback and digest collectors like yourself,
seems to me that paperbacks don't last an awfully long time. How do you store and preserve them
for the future? That's a very good question. First of all, they're going to deteriorate no
matter what you do. You can slow it down. Here in Lubbock, I've got, my stuff is down a basement,
and the temperature stays fairly constant, and the humidity is relatively low, and it's not too
far from ideal book storage conditions just automatically. The rare things, especially I do
put in plastic bags, and I also have access to, my wife is a librarian up at Texas Tech, and so I
have access to her, she's actually the one who does the book repairs, among other things, and all
the prepping of books, that sort of thing. So I have access to her facilities for repairing things.
If I have a copy, say the glue is coming out, I can re-glue it with good grade library glue,
and I've gotten pretty good at making repairs that are fairly unnoticeable, and I can make a pretty
beat-up looking copy look halfway decent. That's a lot better to have one that you don't have to do
that, and if I had a really rare one, I would simply put it in the bag and not touch it anymore and
hope it won't crumble. I suppose for something you're buying that's an older copy, no matter what it
is, that the value is mostly dependent on the condition it's in? The condition is extremely
important. Yes, you can have a rare book that's in perfect condition and expects to pay anywhere
from two to ten times as much as a poorer copy, because many of the real serious collectors
are conditioned freaks, they won't accept one unless it's just in pretty darn nice shape,
and something that's been, you know, read and passed around and survived through several
trips to the used bookstore certainly isn't in that condition. You pretty much have to get one
that was a one-owner book. Okay, what, do you have any particular goals at this time, rather than just
keep, you know, adding on the new books that are coming out? Is there any particular thing you're
aiming at? Not really, which is one reason too, why, you know, the fact that I don't have vans
as dying as an example, I sure I would like to get a copy and hopefully I'll run across, be in the
right place at the right time one day, but I'm not pursuing it fanatically. If I really said I
got to have that book no matter what and I'm willing to pay the price and write to every dealer in
the country that I can find the name for, somebody would come up with a copy, sure, but since I so
widespread, anything I don't get at any particular time, I assume, well, there's a fair chance I'll
get it later. And certainly I have the dying earth and I'm teen other editions, take that as an example.
And I've read it, you know, so it would be nice to have that first edition.
There's an awful lot of things that I don't have, even then, and I'll never have everything, so what
the heck? Is there any particular item that you especially covet?
I don't really know. I could make a short list of a dozen that would be highest priority in terms of
this is what I pay the most money for. Some of the Philippe-Hosé farmers rare rarest books.
The the Vans ones, these guys are both highly collectible anyway, and there'll be a few others.
Would you sell your collection or any portion of it for a high enough price?
Probably not now. I do know somebody who retired and took around the world trip on selling his.
Where would the greatest collections of science fiction material of your type in existence be?
Well, that's easy. Forest J. Ackerman is the was sort of a number one fan. He's pretty old man now,
but he has been active in the field for, I don't know, well over 50 years, and he has
repeatedly bought everything, including all kinds of knickknacks and toys and and first edition
paintings and just literally over a hundred thousand pieces, I understand, which is all in a
he's donated it to, I forget and forgot one, one of the California cities San Francisco, I think,
but anyway, and anyway, it is reputed to be by far the most fantastic collection that's
ever been put together. By the way, there are some libraries now, academic type libraries and others
who have extremely good collections of science fiction. Within Texas, for example, A&M has a
special collection that that I don't think has as many pieces, but probably has more value than
the collection. I know they have a complete set of weird tales, for example. Yeah, we managed to talk
to Forest Ackerman, interviewed him in person at all the Den Venge and to a couple years ago.
So I think I knew the answer to that before I asked you. Right, that's all right, not everybody
listening to you well. Yeah, is there any kind of, I don't know, association group publications,
etc., that go along with the collecting business? Not that I know of specifically for science fiction,
there have been several little amateur publications with titles like Paperback Quarterly,
for example, that have to do with collecting paperbacks exclusively. Mostly what you have is
well, there are various kinds of guides of course and indexes. Other than that,
you just get catalogs from dealers and start looking around.
Would you have any advice for a beginner, somebody who loves science fiction but had not
collected anything, who wanted to start? Okay, probably what most people will do when they
start is they will pick a favorite author or author and try to get all the books by that person.
Somebody with the limited budget just starting thinks, you know, that's a pretty good first
step to say, for example, get every book a copy of some edition of every book that Robert A.
Heinle has written or Andre Norton or who are you name it, whoever the person happens to like.
And once they do that, and if they start getting the collecting bug, then pretty soon they'll
want to trade in those later printings for first editions. And then if they've really gotten into
it, they'll want to trade in those first, beat up first editions for better copies of the first
editions when they do it. They'll probably start expanding into other authors. Or some people will
do it in terms of say, for example, a specific publisher trying to get everything. Or in the case
of the magazines, as I say, that's easy. They might start with, let's say, astounding analog
or magazine of fantasy and science fiction or something like that or amazing stories, whatever.
And maybe brand shout as much as their time, money and inclination. Allow them to.
If you decided, I understand from Bill that you'd also sell a little bit. If you decided to do that
as a living, is it possible to make a living off of it? Not without one. Heck of a lot of time and
effort. Yeah, I basically, what I'm doing is selling off duplicates that I wind up with,
either from buying people's collections or from, if I find a really rare bug, even if I have it,
I'll pick it up if it's cheap. And also, you know, when I buy a full collection, there'll be lots
of duplicates in there. Or I just buy something just to upgrade my copy. Because I did, there was
many years there when I was impressed about condition on getting more and more so myself.
And so I'm still weeding out beat up copies and putting better copies in the places.
So, but it's a part time on the side type thing I do send out. I have a small list of people that
are on a mailing list that gets an occasional catalog I put out or some people send me one list.
And if I have duplicates, why I'll tell them, hey, I got this. And they're able to sell it to
cheaper people. Okay, I just have a couple more, John. Let's see, how should I put this one?
Like, what's going to happen in the future? You know, I assume you're going to be collecting
for most of the rest of your life and so forth. What do you think is going to happen to your
collection? Do you have any plans or is it just? I'll tell you one thing. I hate to think about
moving. But other than that, my wife has talked about that briefly a little bit once in a while.
I would expect, you know, if something unexpected happens, sometime after retirement,
they'll probably be interested in selling off at least most of it. But that's a long way down the
road. She said donate it to some library. Well, if she's left with the decision, she does what she
wants. But I would want to recoup some of the things, some of what we got into it.
Okay, I think you answered this one a little earlier partially. But let me, as I wind down,
just do one more try at it. What part of your collection are you say you're the most proud of?
My pulp magazines, I think, is sort of my own favorite among all the things. You know, people
come into the house, visitors that know nothing about science fiction, and I always trot them
downstairs and show them the collection. Kind of funny to watch somebody, you hand them one of
those old pulp magazines, give them one that isn't crumbling too badly. And then they start looking at
all the old ads from the 30s or whatever. It's kind of a history lesson just to go through the
things, if they don't know the stories or care about that, especially why they find the ads more
fascinating than anything. But I started out in the terms of serious collecting with the magazines
and the pulp especially. And those early ones especially are, there just aren't very many
copies around, and so that's kind of my favorite part of the collection.
What kind of reactions do you get from people when they first get to know you and find out
that you collect like this? Do they think you're pretty weird?
Most of them are at least polite. Actually, it's fairly well known around here because a couple
of years ago, the wire services got ahold of it, and I was interviewed, and there were write-ups
and papers all over the state, and I just learned the other day there was actually one in Lincoln,
Nebraska, and I don't know where else, as well as I appeared on local television and a few other
things, so I don't make any big secret about it at least. So some people know me by, know of my
reputation, oh you mean you're the guy with all those books. Is there any way for you to tell
how you, I don't know, I'm sure how to put this, how you rank or how your collection stacks up
against some of the other collectors around the country? Not really, I do, I have corresponded
with a fair amount of collectors, and I know if I think about it, I could probably put together
a dozen names or so of ones who probably have at least comparable size collections. I think that
possibly for some in some libraries, I doubt they're very many or bigger. I have no real way to know
that because, you know, I don't go to conventions around the country and things like that, so
I need some of these people by letter, but I don't know that much. At least not very many of them do
that one thing I do of collecting multiple editions of the same book. Yeah, this is another one that's
sort of off the record, but I'm a Lord of the Rings bug, you know, Tolkien fan, and I recently
found a set of the Ace Lord of the Rings books and paperback. Are they worth much?
Depending on condition, I think that the market price for nice copies probably in the range of
ten bucks. Ten bucks each? Yeah, I'm not sure, I haven't really seen anybody list one very recently.
It could be more. That's what I pay ten bucks each, and they were in good condition.
What? That was pretty good estimate on your part.
Okay. Well, listen, John, is there, like I said, I don't know a great deal about collecting, so...
You've been asking a good question. Well, I was wondering, is there any area or anything,
or you'd like to say or stuff that I'm missing? I think we pretty much cover the waterfront,
as far as I can tell. Yeah, I would say so. We do have some things in common. I'm a teacher here
at Odessa College. I teach English, but David and I do team teacher science fiction class.
Yeah, right. That's right. So maybe sometime in the future I might give back to you. We could just
talk, do a show or two on just teaching science fiction, something like that. Oh, okay. Our own
approach is probably semi-smoking, at least it isn't like any of them that I've seen syllabus
is on. Scullaby? Whatever it is. Yeah. Well, John, that's about all I can think of. We obviously
will send you the tapes when the shows are edited. David, is there anything you want to ask me?
I think I covered pretty much. I think I'd like to collect in a series or something. Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. Hey, John. Yeah. Do you know this off the record too? You know anybody who's got a copy of
Zalazny's Guns of Avalon, first edition hardcover? No, I don't. Not in hardcover. Yeah. I understand
that. It's pretty hard to get a hold of. It's not near as hard as Nine Princes. Oh, okay. I got the
wrong one then. Oh, I see. I don't have anything except the book club editions. Okay. I'm just
starting into hardbacks really, and I don't have all that much that's rare. And I certainly don't
have duplicate copies. Okay. Well, listen, John, we appreciate your time. Maybe some of these days
I'll get to meet you if we come to some local convention up there or something. Well, hopefully
we'll have a convention here again next year. Yeah. Okay. Thank you very much,
then, John. We'll get these tapes to you as soon as they're done. Okay, great. Goodbye. Bye-bye.